There are different types of data science problems (easy to difficult):
Descriptive - you describe what a dataset is but you do not explain what this could mean. Normally what they do at census
Exploratory - Look at some data and find relationships that you didn't know about previously but not necessarily confirm them (correlation does not imply causation)
Inferential - a small sample says something about a larger population. Most of statistics focus on this
Predictive - use data on some objects to predict values for another object (prediction is not causation)
Causal - what happens to one variable when you make another variable change
Mechanistic - understand the exact changes in variables that lead to changes in other variables for individual objects

Data are values of qualitative or quantitative variables (measurement), belonging to a set of items (population)

Most important things in data science:
1. Question
2. Data

Big data is a relative concept. It will become small with technology advancement. Also, you don't necessarily need to use a very complicated data collection system: for most purpuses Hadoop is not necessary.

EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN
issue of confounding:
in a study you look for a correlation between shoe size and literacy. There could be a factor (age) that is counfounding: this factor is the cause of both the factor in analysis.

Randomization and blocking:
to make an experiment repeteable you can
1. fix a variable (all chimp are males)
2. stratify a variable (equal proportion male female in two groups)
3. if you can't fix a variable, randomize it

For a prediction study:
Probability/sampling
we need a training set that contains the same proportions of the population. Otherwise we overfit the predictive model
Also, in a prediction problem, the values of the output variable need to be separated (attribution of an element to a class). If the value has a good chance to belong to either the classes, then prediction doesn't work well.
	Disease +	Disease -
Test +	TP		FP
Test -	FN		TN

Good experiments have:
1. Replication
2. Measure variability
3. Generalize to the problem you care about
4. Are Transparent

Prediction is not inference
 - both important
Beware of data dredging
